Lab 5 Readme

Jacob Watson (JRWatson@wpi.edu), Erik Nadel (EINadel@wpi.edu) - Team 5J

--------



Build Instructions

--------

expand the tar file into a empty directory, then type:

make (return)

To execute the program type:

./Lab5 (return)



How it works:

--------

        This program is split into several different classes, which each handle one aspect of the packets trip fro\

m the host to the reciever. The host class handles the tasks of S1 and S2. Router handles the actions of M1 and M2\

. Reciever handles the actions of R1. FCFSqueue and queueNode handle the tasks of the send queue for the routers. \

EventList and EventNode handle the eventlists interactions with the other classes. All of the classes except for t\

he ones for the eventlist and queue have cycle methods, which handle the actions of that structure for one simulat\

ed second cycle.

        The program begins by setting the simluated time to zero. It then intitalizes two instances of host to rep\

resent S1 and S2. These classes are passed their assigned packets by a individual for loop. The program then inita\

lizes the variable numPackets to 200. This variable keeps track of the total number of packets that need to be pro\

cessed. The next step is the intialization of two instances of Router, to represent M1 and M2 repectively, and one\

 instance of Receiver to represent R1. The program then uses a while loop, controlled by checking to see if the nu\

mber of packets recieved by R1 is equal to the total number of packets (as represented by numPackets), to call the\

 cycle methods for S1, S2, M1, and M2. Each iteration of the while loop represents one second of simulated time, a\

nd each methods cycle call within the loop represents that structures actions during that one second. Once R1 has \

received all the packets, the loop terminates, and the program moves on to the results stage. Here the program pri\

nts out the Sim time at the end, the max queues of M1 and M2, and the average packet respnce time. The program the\

n terminates.





Notes:

--------

Packets are tested using packets of size one hundred through two hundred.

The eventlist acts more as a eventlog, as we do not remove anything from the event list, but instead add additiona\

l events to the list as they occur. The lab5swimlane.png is a flowchart of how the program works. 
















